In this lesson, we will look at the ACharacter class. This class extends the APawn class
that we discussed in the previous section. He added additional functionality for
working with motion, animations and physical interactions. So, go to the directory
with C ++ classes in the content browser.
I remind you that if the directory is not visible to you, then we
go to the content browser in the view options and click on the checkbox - show c ++ classes. Right
-click, select the new C ++ class. Let's create an inheritor of the ACharacter base class.
We name the class STUBaseCharacter.
Let's create it in the Player subdirectory and also click on the public button on the right so that all
header files are created in the public directory, and the cpp files in the private directory.
We will also create a player controller class for character, which is the interface
between the user and the character itself. We inherit from
playercontroller and call the class STUPlayerController. Click on create class.
So, in our player directory, the basecharacter and playercontroller classes were created, and the project was successfully
compiled. Consider one point that we will use throughout the course.
In some versions of unreal, a bug jumps over when generating a class in a subdirectory. Sometimes the
full path to the file is not appended to include. Let's see what happens. Remove Player,
right-click on the project and select build. We compile the project without
opening the editor, open the log and see that the console shows that the compiler cannot find the
path to the ABaseCharacter.h header file, because an incomplete path to the .h file is specified.
To make the compiler find the header file without specifying the full path in the include name,
we can add a special setting in the build file of our project. Open the corresponding
C # file. UnrealBuildTool has a special list in which you can specify the directories
in which the compiler will look for header files. The list is called PublicIncludePaths
This list is initialized with an array of strings, which contain paths to directories
with our include files. Add a relative path to the Player directory.
Let's check. Let's build the project again.
The build was successful, now the compiler finds
our BaseCharacter header file. As the project progresses
, when adding a new directory, I will also
add it to PublicIncludePaths. We will also remove our changes in ABaseCharacter. Let's change the
default character and controller classes in our game mode.
We include the STUBaseCharacter and
STUPlayerController headers into the GameModeBase .cpp file.
Go to the header file, create a public section.
We declare a constructor and create its body in a .cpp file.
The Property that is responsible
for the Pawn class is called DefaultPawnClass. Our character inherits from
Pawn, so we can override this property using character.
We indicate the class of our ABaseCharacter. The Property that is responsible for the controller
is called PlayerControllerClass. In this property, we specify the class of our controller.
We launch the project.
We look in WorldSettings and see that all our
classes are set correctly: DefaultPawn has become STUBaseCharacter
and playercontroller has become STUPlayerController.
Let's create blueprints
based on these classes . First, create a new folder. Let's call it player.
Create a blueprint for the GameMode class.
Let's add it to the Content folder.
Next, we create a controller in the Player package.
We call it BP_STUPlayerController.
and the last blueprint for Character.
Also put this blueprint in the Player folder.
We save everything and change all classes to blueprints in world settings. We do this in order to make
all visual settings in blueprint, and not in code files.
We open the character.
Open full blueprint editor.
In the components panel, we can see what our character is made of.
The capsule component is responsible for the collision in the world,
that is, for the physical interaction - this is the root component.
Next comes the arrow component - this component was created for debugging, that is, it is not displayed in the game.
It only shows the forward direction of the vector of our character.
The next component is SkeletalMesh, which
is responsible for the visual presentation of our
character. In SkeletalMesh, in addition to ordinary polygons, there is
also a hierarchy of bones with which these polygons can be animated.
And the last component is CharacterMovement, which is responsible for the movement of our character.
In the details panel, you can see that it has a bunch of settings. Also, the
component is purely logical, it has no external representation.
We can install SkeletalMesh right away. We imported this character from the shooter game.
Let's lower it a little lower so that it matches the capsule.
Also rotate the character 90 degrees so that its
forward vector matches the direction of the arrow component. Compile. We save.
If we start the game now, then by default our camera is located somewhere in the middle of the character.
Let's go back to the code and take full control of the camera.
Let's use the camera component and add it to our character.
As we remember, this component is responsible for the
viewport - how we see the world with you. Go to the character .h file.
Create a protected property in the section, with the VisibleAnywhere access specifier.
Let's also make it available in blueprint - BlueprintReadWrite.
And add this property to the components category.
Create a pointer to the UCameraComponent class.
Let's call it CameraComponent.
At the top of the .h file, add the forward declaration of the UCameraComponent class.
Go to the .cpp file. Let's immediately include the header file with our camera component.
We create this component in the character constructor.
Let's use the familiar CreateDefaultSubobject function.
Let's connect our camera component to the root component of the character.
To do this, we will use the function of the SetupAttachment component.
We need to pass a pointer
to the root component to the function . For this, the actor has the GetRootComponent function,
which returns a pointer to the root component of the actor.
In a character, the root component is the collision component. Launch editor.
We open the blueprint with our character.
viewport
Let's set up a camera offset, somewhere farther,
backward and upward. Compile, save, press play.
So, in this tutorial we have configured all the main classes that we need in this section.
And from the next lesson, we proceed directly to animating our character.